Project Assignment 1a

For this assignment you will be writing three critical classes for the gameMechanics package of 
the project. We will be supplying you with the Rules interface, .jar files containing a working
Board package and Player package to help you test, JUnit test cases, and the javaDocs for these 
classes.  JavaDocs for the classes you will need to write and use this week can be found at 
https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/index.html

Trails is a two player game played on a trapezoidal board of hexagonal tiles with all all sides
having the same number of tiles.  Players alternate turns with red going first, and they
color in uncolored tiles with their color until one player has connected both of their edges of the
board to each other with an uninterrupted path of tiles in their color.  Once a player has done this
that player wins the game.

Your goal for the rest of the semester will be to program a version of Trails for this class.  You 
will need to write the Rules, the Board, an AI computer player, and a Graphical User Interface for 
the Board that allows you to use the mouse to play.  Your assignment this week is to write several 
classes in the gameMechanics package, including StandardRules (described above), LoseByConnectingRules, 
and the Move class whose instances represent Moves in the Trails game.  We anticipate this project 
will be challenging and rewarding, and we encourage you to start early and collaborate closely with
your partner.

*If you have not yet started the project, please follow steps 1-11 to get this set up.

1) Run Xming and load up Putty with X-11 forwarding enabled and connect to Silo.

2) Navigate to your C212-submissions folder and run git submit.

3) After running git submit, run git start.

4) Load the Kepler Eclipse module, then load Eclipse, and then import 1a from the new project folder
that you will find in your C212-submissions folder.

5) Now that your project has been created, make sure that under the Referenced Libraries drop down 
tab in the package explorer you see Board.jar and Player.jar. If you don't (or if you don't see 
a Referenced Libraries tab), then you should right click on your project folder and click 
properties. In properties, click on the Libraries tab and click 'add external jars'.  Navigate to 
C212-submissions/project/lib/ and select Board.jar and Player.jar and click ok.  Verify that the 
Board.jar and Player.jar files now appear in your Referenced Libraries tab in the Package Explorer.
.jar files contain compiled java code that you can run.  In this case, Board.jar and Player.jar contain 
working code for the Board and Player classes you will be writing in future weeks.  You aren't able to 
see the contents of these .jar files as you will be implementing them later in the project, however we 
are providing them to you this week so that you can test the code you are writing this week against 
working project code.  Over the next several weeks you will delete these two .jar files and write your 
own Player and Board classes.

6) Make sure that you have a JUnit 4 library in your Package Explorer and that junit.jar is in it.
If this is not the case, then you should right click on your project folder and click properties.
In properties, click on the Libraries tab and select 'add libraries'.  Select JUnit and click next.
Select JUnit 4 from the drop down menu and click finish.  Verify that junit.jar appears in a JUnit 4
library section in your Package Explorer.

7) Read through the descriptions of each of the new classes you should be writing and their methods.
Remember that javaDocs do not include private methods or fields.  If you don't see a method or field
that you think would be useful, feel free to add it to your code.  Just remember that you need to make
sure that you include all of the methods and fields that are in the javaDocs.
The javaDocs for Move, StandardRules, and LoseByConnectRules can be found below:

Move: https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/edu/indiana/cs/c212/gameMechanics/Move.html 

StandardRules: https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/edu/indiana/cs/c212/gameMechanics/StandardRules.html

LoseByConnectingRules: https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/edu/indiana/cs/c212/gameMechanics/LoseByConnectingRules.html

Additional libraries you will need to interact with (and their respective classes) can be found here:

Board: 
Player: 

8) When creating the new classes that you will need to write, make sure you create them in the
appropriate packages.  All of the classes you are responsible for writing this week need to be in your
gameMechanics package.  To create a new class in gameMechanics, right click on your gameMechanics package
in the package explorer, mouse over new, and select class.  In the name field type the name of your class
(this should be Move, StandardRules, or LoseByConnectingRules).  Once you have done this, if your class
will be implementing an Interface (for example Rules.java), click on the add button next to the Interfaces
text box, and search for the name of the Interface you want your new class to implement.  Once you have 
found it, select that interface and hit ok.  If your class extends another class, choose that class in the
field where you see java.lang.Object.  Once your interface and class inheritance choices match the
javaDocs, click finish.  If you are unsure if your class will be implementing an interface or extending
another class, please go back to step 7 and re-read the javaDocs for each class. It is important that 
you do this step correctly as it will save you many many headaches!

9) Now that you have added your Move, StandardRules, and LoseByConnectingRules classes to 
gameMechanics, you should ensure that all of the return statements for methods that return something
match the return types.  Once you reach this point, you should go back to the javaDocs for the
three classes you're working on and make sure that you add all of their methods, fields,
and constructors as stated in the javaDocs.  For all of these methods, make sure that
their return statements match their required return type. 

10) Once step 9 has been completed successfully you should be able to run your JUnit tests without
compile errors.  To run JUnit tests, navigate to the src/test/java folder inside your project in the package explorer.
Once there, navigate to edu.indiana.cs.212 and right click on AllTests.java to bring up a menu.  From
here go to the Run menu and select Run As and JUnit Test.  At this point you should see a JUnit bar appear 
next to your Package Explorer menu.  It's ok that most of your tests failed or had errors, they 
should at this point as you have not completed the methods they are testing.  Having said that,
you should not have compile errors.  If you have compile errors, you probably didn't set your return
types correctly, made a mistake on a constructor, or didn't set a required private field, and should
go back to steps 8 and 9 and check your work.

11) Now that you have code that compiles, it is time to actually complete your three new classes 
(Move, StandardRules, and LoseByConnectingRules).  You will find the Rules interface and javaDocs 
provided for the gameMechanics, board, and player packages helpful.  Please refer to all of them regularly!

javaDocs for these packages can be found at:

Game Mechanics: https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/edu/indiana/cs/c212/gameMechanics/package-frame.html
Board: 
Player: 

12) Once you have written your classes and feel confident that they are working as instructed, 
put javaDoc author tags for you and your partner at the top of your file as follows:

/**@author <YOUR USER NAME GOES HERE>
* @author <YOUR PARTNER`S USERNAME GOES HERE>
*
**/

13) Make sure you've saved your work, then submit to github. Either you or your partner should submit your code, 
but not both of you.  Make sure you use author tags as in instruction 12 or you may not receive credit
for your work! To submit, make sure you are in your C212-submissions directory and run git submit.

Once you have submitted, check github to make sure that your work is there.

14) As always, talk to your partner, google, e-mail the listserv, and/or come to office hours if you
have questions.
