###Project Assignment 1b - Due Wednesday November 5th at Midnight!

BEFORE YOU START WORKING: make sure to delete your Board.jar from the lib folder. See the bottom of this document for exact instructions.

For this assignment you will be writing two core classes for the board package of the project, Tile and SimpleGameBoard. We will be supplying you with the interface and abstract class, as well as the [javaDocs](https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/overview-summary.html) that you will need in order to write these classes.


###Tile
Tile javaDocs: [Tile](https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/edu/indiana/cs/c212/board/Tile.html)

Each Tile is a spot on the board. It knows about the player color that populates that spot, as well as which hexagon on the board it occupies. It should be able to tell if it is equal to another given Object, as well as have a nice way to print.

Tiles are used to represents the spots on the board that players choose each turn. These will provide a back-end on which to build the graphical and textual output that will let you play the game.

Remember PlayerColor allows for three options, RED, BLUE, and BLANK. In StandardRules all tiles should be BLANK at the beginning of the game and will stay that way until a player makes a legal move on them.

An instance of Tile represents a hexagonal node (or space) on the gameboard. A Tile instance will have a Point that has an x and y coordinate, as well as a PlayerColor that represents the player whose color that Tile is (note that Blank should be used when no player controls a Tile, at least in the standard rules). Tiles can be constructed in two ways: one way gives you an x and y that help you to construct the point that tile occupies, and the second way takes another Tile instance and creates a new Tile that is a copy of the given Tile. The rest of the methods needed for Tile are listed in the javaDocs, and should be very similar to many of the methods you wrote in Move last week.

###SimpleGameBoard

SimpleGameBoard javaDocs: [SimpleGameBoard](https://github.iu.edu/pages/c212-fall2014/project/apidocs/edu/indiana/cs/c212/board/SimpleGameBoard.html)

The SimpleGameBoard is the class that ties together all of the other pieces of our project. It keeps track of the current Player, it tracks when changes occur, and it knows the size of the board. This class acts as a controller for the model and the view (which we will get to next week). The constructor also specifies the end zones of the board, which will be very useful in determining whether any given move connects two sides of the board by a path of one color of tiles.

In SimpleGameBoard, you will need to create the board (for example, as a Tile[ ][ ] with some goal nodes) initialize it with the appropriate starting state and then update the board as moves or other events happen to keep it current with the state of the game. Remember that the color (PlayerColor) of the Tile being constructed matters.

Think about the goal zones as nodes (Tiles), one on each side of the board, that connnect to every Tile on that side of the board. Using an implementation like this you can think about checking whether someone has won as checking whether there is a path connecting two goal nodes where all the Tiles on that path (including the nodes) are of the same PlayerColor. In such an implementation you might want to give the goal zones coordinates using x and y values of -1 or size (where size is the size of any side of the board). Choosing an implementation like this might simplify the writing of your conditional checks when trying to determine whether a player has won or what the neighbors of a Tile are. Board.jpg in this folder shows an ASCII art example of this sort of board representation.

SimpleGameBoard inherits from a class as well as an interface. This means that it must implement the three methods from Board that do not already have a body in Board, namely getNeighbors, makeMove and getTileAt. SimpleGameBoard also has two constructors, similar to Tile, one that explicitly gives values for the class fields, and another that takes an existing Board and makes a copy. See the javaDocs for more information on those constructors.

Here are the method descriptions for three methods that you will need to write in SimpleGameBoard:

makeMove takes in a PlayerColor and a move and makes that move for that player if that move is legal for that player. Note: If you checked for legality in your Rules, you do not need to check legality again in your SimpleGameBoard. You simply need to make the given move by altering the tiles.

getTileAt returns the tile with the specified coordinates. Note: Be careful to handle the goal nodes appropriately, but also handle the case where you attempt to select something outside the bounds of the board. If you try to get at something outside the board, you do need to have a return statement, not simply throw an exception. This is because you have other code that depends on this return, and your game should not error simply because the move got through your legality check in Rules.

getNeighbors returns all adjacent tiles to the current tile, regardless of color. Note: Think about the edge cases in order to have this return the correct Set. How do you handle the goal nodes? If the goal nodes are Tiles, what point are they stored at?

###Set, Observer, and Observable
A Set in Java is an unordered collection that contains no duplicate elements.  
Link to the Set interface: [Set](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Set.html)
And for a class that implements Set see HashSet: [HashSet](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/HashSet.html) 

Link to the Observable Interface: [Observable](http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/api/java/util/Observable.html)

Keep in mind that an Observer works similarly to a button that gets pressed. When an action happens, an Observable notifies all of its observers that an action happened.

Here are the rules surrounding Observers and Observables:

1.) Observable is a Class and Observer is an Interface.

2.) An Observable class maintains a list of its observers.

3.) When an Observable object is updated it invokes the update() method of each of its observers to notify the observers that it has changed state.

Here is an example of Observable and Observer Classes that illustrates how they can be used:

```java
import java.util.Observable; 
import java.util.Observer;

class MessageBoard extends Observable { private String message;

	public String getMessage() { 
		return message; 
	}
	
	public void changeMessage(String message) { 
		this.message = message; 
		//Here An action took place, and we notify the Observers 
		setChanged();
		notifyObservers(message); 
	}

	public static void main(String[] args) { 
		MessageBoard board = new MessageBoard(); 
		Student bob = new Student(); 
		Student joe = new Student(); 
		board.addObserver(bob); 
		board.addObserver(joe); 
		board.changeMessage("More Homework!"); 
	}
}

class Student implements Observer { 
	public void update(Observable o, Object arg) { 
		System.out.println("Message board changed: " + arg); 
	}
}
```

###Instructions

For more information on the assignment, including additional high-level details about the classes you will be implementing, please see the Board interface, along with the AbstractBoard class for this assignment.  Please reference the javaDocs frequently as they should help clarify what you need to do and help you think about how you might go about doing it.

1) Navigate to your C212/c212-submissions directory and run git start.

2) Read through the descriptions of each of the new classes and their methods.

3) Implement the two new classes (Tile and SimpleGameBoard) according to the specifications in the javaDocs you read in 2).  Again, when reading javaDocs, please remember that private methods and fields are not included.  It is up to you to decide how you implement everything as long as you include everything you find in the javaDocs.

4) Once you feel confident that your classes are working as instructed, put javaDoc author tags for you and your partner at the top of your file as you did in the first part of the project.
	
5) Make sure you've saved your work, then submit it to github. Check github to make sure your work is there.

6) As always, talk to your partner, google, e-mail the listserv, and/or come to office hours if you have questions.

7) Project Assignment 1b is due Wednesday, November 5th, at midnight!


###Guide to deleting Board.jar:

Open your lib folder in your Package Explorer in Eclipse. Right click the Board.jar file as shown below and click Delete. (alternatively, highlight Board.jar and press the Delete key on your keyboard.)

You will see a confirmation prompt. Click yes.

You will then see a prompt for project references. This is also fine.

Now that you have successfully removed Board.jar you will need to update your classpath. To do this, right click your project and select properties, then go to Java Build Path and open the Libraries Tab. You should see a reference to Board.jar here, this is the reference that needs to be removed, so remove it.
